Key-Manager Standard (#599)
SovereignCloudStack/standards: Standards/scs-XXXX-wN-key-manager-implementation-testing.md

type: Supplement
track: IaaS
status: Proposal
supplements:
  - scs-XXXX-v1-vN-key-manager-standard.md
---

## Implementation

A Key-Manager can have different backends, for Barbican there are called Plugins.
The standard plugin is simple crypto, which has the Master-KEK written in the Barbican config file.
To secure that Master-KEK it is advised to protect the Barbican config e.g. through running Barbican in an enclave.

Another option to secure the Master-KEK would be using an HSM with a corresponding plugin in Barbican.
In that case the Master-KEK will be stored inside the HSM and encryption and decryption of the Project-KEKs will also happen in the HSM.
There are also software HSMs available, that should be tested for their integration into the Barbican workflow.

## Automated Tests

The check for the presence of a Key Manager is done with an test script, that checks the presence of a key manager service in the catalog endpoint of openstack.
This check can eventually be moved to the checks for the mandatory an supported service/API list, in case of a promotion of the key-manager to the mandatory list.

## Manual Tests

> There need to be a manual test that searches the physical host of the Key-Manager host for the present of a Master-KEK in Plain-Text, e.g. in the Barbican config file.

Author: It is possible, to run certain parts of Barbicna in an enclave that also holds the complete config file. In that case, the Master KEK will not be found.

So one option as a manual test would be to search for a plain text config file and check, whether simple_crypto is used as a plugin and the MasterKEK is written into the config.

Maybe in future there are other ways to secure the MasterKEK even within the simple_crypto plugin. We should not make assumptions about that part of configuration of this plugin here, other than that we want to encourage CSPs to protect the MasterKEK.

---
title: "SCS Key Manager Standard: Implementation and Testing Notes"
type: Supplement
track: IaaS
status: Proposal
supplements:
  - scs-XXXX-v1-vN-key-manager-standard.md
---

## Implementation

> A Key Manager service can have different backends, for Barbican these are called Plugins.

Reviewer: Semantically those are 2 different sentences in Englisch.

The standard plugin is `simple_crypto`, which has the Master-KEK written in the Barbican config file.

> To secure that Master-KEK when the `simple_crypto` plugin is used it is advised to protect the Barbican config e.g. through running Barbican in an enclave.

Reviewer: "to [A] when [B] it is advised to [C]" => "when [B] [A] can be achieved by [C]"

Author: I rephrased it.

Another option to secure the Master-KEK would be using an HSM with a corresponding plugin in Barbican.
In that case the Master-KEK will be stored inside the HSM and encryption and decryption of the Project-KEKs will also happen in the HSM.
There are also software HSMs available, that should be tested for their integration into the Barbican workflow.

Other Plugins in Barbican are the KMIP plugin and Vault[^1].
They are storing the keys differently and CSPs need to make sure, that the access to the keys is configured securely.

[^1]:[Barbican Plugins](https://docs.openstack.org/barbican/latest/install/barbican-backend.html)

## Automated Tests

> The check for the presence of a Key Manager is done with an test script, that checks the presence of a key manager service in the catalog endpoint of openstack.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
The check for the presence of a Key Manager is done with a test script, that checks the presence of a Key-Manager service in the catalog endpoint of Openstack.
```

This check can eventually be moved to the checks for the mandatory an supported service/API list, in case of a promotion of the key-manager to the mandatory list.

## Manual Tests

> There need to be a manual test that searches the physical host of the Key-Manager host for the present of a Master-KEK in Plain-Text, e.g. in the Barbican config file.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
There needs to be a manual test that searches the physical host of the Key-Manager host for the presence of a Master-KEK in Plain-Text, e.g. in the Barbican config file.
```

> There needs to be a manual test that searches the physical host of the Key Manager host for the presence of a Master-KEK in Plain-Text, e.g. in the Barbican config file.

Reviewer: Depending on the used plugin the config file may look very differently. One possibility is that the plugin invokes command that returns the key, but the configuration of the command itself contains the key in plain text (or base64). 
I think it makes not much sense to state that there must be a test to check presense of the plain text master key. Instead I would explicitly state that it is out of scope and is in the hands of the CSP to ensure master kek is protected correspondingly.

Author: I think an audit is needed somehow, but how about an audit of the architecture?
